README.md, before:

# SprykerCommunity Customer Order Search Installation Guide

This README provides step-by-step instructions to integrate the SprykerCommunity Dummy Module into your Spryker B2B Demo Shop.

## Prerequisites

1. Spryker B2B Demo Shop installed and running
2. Git access to clone the "Customer Order Search" module
3. Composer installed

## Workflow

### Set up a place for packagable modules to work on

1. Create local-packages Directory

Create a local-packages directory in your demo shop root:

```bash
mkdir local-packages
cd local-packages
```

2. Adjust .gitignore of demo-shop

Add the module directory to your main project's .gitignore file to prevent tracking the module as part of the main project:

```
# Add to .gitignore
/local-packages/
```

### Install the "Customer Order Search" Module

1. Clone "Customer Order Search" Module

Clone the "Customer Order Search" module repository into the module directory:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:spryker-community/customer-order-search.git customer-order-search
```

Your directory structure should now look like:

```text
b2b-demo-shop/
├── local-packages/
│   └── customer-order-search/
│       ├── assets/
│       │   ├── Zed/
│       │   │   └── package.json
│       │   └── package.json
│       └── src/
│           └── SprykerCommunity/
│               └── Zed/
│                   └── DummyModule/
├── src/
├── vendor/
└── composer.json
```

2. Update Main Project composer.json

Add the path repository configuration to your main project's composer.json:

```json
{
    "repositories": [
        {
            "type": "path",
            "url": "local-packages/customer-order-search",
            "options": {
                "symlink": true
            }
        }
    ],
}
```

3. Install the Module

Run the composer require command from your demo shop root directory:

```bash
composer require spryker-community/customer-order-search:@dev
```

### Make your project aware of Spryker Community

#### Sprykers Autoloading (PHP-side)

1. Configure Spryker Core Namespaces

Add the SprykerCommunity namespace to your Spryker configuration:

File: `config/Shared/config_default.php`

```php
<?php

// Add SprykerCommunity to the core namespaces array
$config[KernelConstants::CORE_NAMESPACES] = [
    'SprykerCommunity',  // Add this line
    'SprykerShop',
    'SprykerEco',
    'Spryker',
    'SprykerSdk',
];
```

2. Clear Cache (Optional)

If needed, clear the Spryker cache:

```bash
vendor/bin/console cache:empty-all
```

#### Node Modules

1. Add the `spryker-community` workspace to the root `package.json` of your project:

```
"workspaces": [
   "vendor/spryker/*",
   "vendor/spryker-community/*",
   "vendor/spryker-community/*/assets/",
   "vendor/spryker/*/assets/Zed",
   "vendor/spryker-community/*/assets/Zed"
],
```

2. Add community to frontend build process:

```javascript

const globalSettings = {
    ...
    paths: {
        ...
        // community folders
        community: './vendor/spryker-community',
        ...
    }
    ...
}


const getAppSettingsByTheme = (namespaceConfig, theme, pathToConfig) => {
    ...
    const paths = {
        ...
        // community folders
        community: globalSettings.paths.community,
        ...
    };
    ...

    // return settings
    return {
        ...
        find: {
        // entry point patterns (components)
            componentEntryPoints: {
                // absolute dirs in which look for
                dirs: [
                    join(globalSettings.context, paths.core),
                    join(globalSettings.context, paths.eco),
                        join(globalSettings.context, paths.community), // this position is cruicial
                    join(globalSettings.context, paths.project),
                ],
                ...
            },
        ...
    };
    ...
};
```

4. Install all JavaScript dependencies from the `/vendor/spryker-community` directory and compile them for use in your application:

Note: Execute inside your `docker/sdk cli`
```bash
npm install
```

With `ls -la node_modules` you should see that we installed the node modules `dummy-package-tsl` and `hello-world-npm`.


### Register plugins

`\Pyz\Yves\Router\RouterDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function getRouteProvider(): array
{
    return [
        ...
        new CustomerOrderSearchRouteProviderPlugin(),
    ];
}
```

`\Pyz\Yves\TabsWidget\TabsWidgetDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function createFullTextSearchPlugins(): array
{
    return [
        ...
        new FullTextSearchOrderPageTabPlugin(),
    ];
}
```
`\Pyz\Zed\Publisher\PublisherDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function getPublisherPlugins(): array
{
    return array_merge(
        ...
        [
           new CustomerOrderSearchPublisherPlugin(),
        ],
    );
}
```
`\Pyz\Zed\Sales\SalesDependencyProvider`:
```php
    protected function getOrderPostSavePlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            ...
            new CustomerOrderSearchPostSavePublishPlugin(),
        ];
    }
```
`\Pyz\Zed\Console\ConsoleDependencyProvider`:
```php
    protected function getConsoleCommands(Container $container): array
    {
        $commands = [
            ...
            new CustomerOrderSearchPublishConsole(),
        ];
    }
```



### Add translations

To ensure proper translation in the frontend, you need to add a new glossary for the pages:

1. Open the backoffice http://backoffice.eu.spryker.local/glossary

2. Add the following keys to glossary:
```csv
key,translation.de_DE,translation.en_US
global.search.suggestion.in_orders,"In Bestellungen gefunden","Found in orders"
customer-order-search.order-suggest.order_headline,'Bestellung "%reference%" vom %date%','Order "%reference%" from %date%'
customer-order-search.order-suggest.order_subheadline,"Produkte: %count%","Products: %count%"
```

### Add widgets to Yves templates

1. Register the order widget for suggest usage:

`\Pyz\Yves\ShopApplication\ShopApplicationDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
{
    return [
        ...
        CustomerOrderSuggest::class,
    ];
}
```

2. Add widget snippet to template:
`src/Pyz/Yves/CatalogPage/Theme/default/views/suggestion-results/suggestion-results.twig`
```twig
...

{% define data = {
    ...
    orders: suggestionByType.customer_order | default([]),
    ...
}

...

    <div class="grid grid--gap">
        {% if data.orders is not empty %}
            {% widget 'CustomerOrderSuggest' args [data.orders] only %}{% endwidget %}
        {% endif %}
        ...
```

3. Add widget for PDP usage:

`\Pyz\Yves\ShopApplication\ShopApplicationDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
{
    return [
        ...
        ProductDetailCustomerOrderWidget::class,
    ];
}
```

4. Add widget to PDP:

`src/Pyz/Yves/CatalogPage/Theme/default/views/suggestion-results/suggestion-results.twig`
```twig
...
            <div class="col col--sm-12 col--lg-5">
                {% widget 'ProductDetailCustomerOrderWidget' args [data.product.sku] only %}{% endwidget %}
                {% include molecule('product-configurator', 'ProductDetailPage') with {
                    ...
                } only %}
            </div>
...
```

Commit message:

[hackathon-2025] added feature description to readme for customer order search module

README.md, after:

# SprykerCommunity Customer Order Search
This README provides step-by-step instructions to integrate the SprykerCommunity CustomerOrderSearch into your Spryker B2B Demo Shop.

## Features

### Order indexing
  Customer orders (including order items) are indexed into Elasticsearch and can be queried via the standard search functionality.

### Product detail page integration
  On the product detail page, the shop can display an indicator if the logged-in customer has already purchased the product.

### Console publishing
Orders can be (re)published to Elasticsearch via console commands.

Publish all orders (with confirmation prompt).
```bash
console order:search:publish
```
Publish specific orders by passing one or more `sales_order_id` values.
```bash
console order:search:publish 123 456 789
```

# Installation Guide

## Prerequisites

1. Spryker B2B Demo Shop installed and running
2. Git access to clone the "Customer Order Search" module
3. Composer installed

## Workflow

### Set up a place for packagable modules to work on

1. Create local-packages Directory

Create a local-packages directory in your demo shop root:

```bash
mkdir local-packages
cd local-packages
```

2. Adjust .gitignore of demo-shop

Add the module directory to your main project's .gitignore file to prevent tracking the module as part of the main project:

```
# Add to .gitignore
/local-packages/
```

### Install the "Customer Order Search" Module

1. Clone "Customer Order Search" Module

Clone the "Customer Order Search" module repository into the module directory:

```bash
git clone git@github.com:spryker-community/customer-order-search.git customer-order-search
```

Your directory structure should now look like:

```text
b2b-demo-shop/
├── local-packages/
│   └── customer-order-search/
│       ├── assets/
│       │   ├── Zed/
│       │   │   └── package.json
│       │   └── package.json
│       └── src/
│           └── SprykerCommunity/
│               └── Zed/
│                   └── DummyModule/
├── src/
├── vendor/
└── composer.json
```

2. Update Main Project composer.json

Add the path repository configuration to your main project's composer.json:

```json
{
    "repositories": [
        {
            "type": "path",
            "url": "local-packages/customer-order-search",
            "options": {
                "symlink": true
            }
        }
    ],
}
```

3. Install the Module

Run the composer require command from your demo shop root directory:

```bash
composer require spryker-community/customer-order-search:@dev
```

### Make your project aware of Spryker Community

#### Sprykers Autoloading (PHP-side)

1. Configure Spryker Core Namespaces

Add the SprykerCommunity namespace to your Spryker configuration:

File: `config/Shared/config_default.php`

```php
<?php

// Add SprykerCommunity to the core namespaces array
$config[KernelConstants::CORE_NAMESPACES] = [
    'SprykerCommunity',  // Add this line
    'SprykerShop',
    'SprykerEco',
    'Spryker',
    'SprykerSdk',
];
```

2. Clear Cache (Optional)

If needed, clear the Spryker cache:

```bash
vendor/bin/console cache:empty-all
```

#### Node Modules

1. Add the `spryker-community` workspace to the root `package.json` of your project:

```
"workspaces": [
   "vendor/spryker/*",
   "vendor/spryker-community/*",
   "vendor/spryker-community/*/assets/",
   "vendor/spryker/*/assets/Zed",
   "vendor/spryker-community/*/assets/Zed"
],
```

2. Add community to frontend build process:

```javascript

const globalSettings = {
    ...
    paths: {
        ...
        // community folders
        community: './vendor/spryker-community',
        ...
    }
    ...
}


const getAppSettingsByTheme = (namespaceConfig, theme, pathToConfig) => {
    ...
    const paths = {
        ...
        // community folders
        community: globalSettings.paths.community,
        ...
    };
    ...

    // return settings
    return {
        ...
        find: {
        // entry point patterns (components)
            componentEntryPoints: {
                // absolute dirs in which look for
                dirs: [
                    join(globalSettings.context, paths.core),
                    join(globalSettings.context, paths.eco),
                        join(globalSettings.context, paths.community), // this position is cruicial
                    join(globalSettings.context, paths.project),
                ],
                ...
            },
        ...
    };
    ...
};
```

4. Install all JavaScript dependencies from the `/vendor/spryker-community` directory and compile them for use in your application:

Note: Execute inside your `docker/sdk cli`
```bash
npm install
```

With `ls -la node_modules` you should see that we installed the node modules `dummy-package-tsl` and `hello-world-npm`.


### Register plugins

`\Pyz\Yves\Router\RouterDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function getRouteProvider(): array
{
    return [
        ...
        new CustomerOrderSearchRouteProviderPlugin(),
    ];
}
```

`\Pyz\Yves\TabsWidget\TabsWidgetDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function createFullTextSearchPlugins(): array
{
    return [
        ...
        new FullTextSearchOrderPageTabPlugin(),
    ];
}
```
`\Pyz\Zed\Publisher\PublisherDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function getPublisherPlugins(): array
{
    return array_merge(
        ...
        [
           new CustomerOrderSearchPublisherPlugin(),
        ],
    );
}
```
`\Pyz\Zed\Sales\SalesDependencyProvider`:
```php
    protected function getOrderPostSavePlugins(): array
    {
        return [
            ...
            new CustomerOrderSearchPostSavePublishPlugin(),
        ];
    }
```
`\Pyz\Zed\Console\ConsoleDependencyProvider`:
```php
    protected function getConsoleCommands(Container $container): array
    {
        $commands = [
            ...
            new CustomerOrderSearchPublishConsole(),
        ];
    }
```



### Add translations

To ensure proper translation in the frontend, you need to add a new glossary for the pages:

1. Open the backoffice http://backoffice.eu.spryker.local/glossary

2. Add the following keys to glossary:
```csv
key,translation.de_DE,translation.en_US
global.search.suggestion.in_orders,"In Bestellungen gefunden","Found in orders"
customer-order-search.order-suggest.order_headline,'Bestellung "%reference%" vom %date%','Order "%reference%" from %date%'
customer-order-search.order-suggest.order_subheadline,"Produkte: %count%","Products: %count%"
```

### Add widgets to Yves templates

1. Register the order widget for suggest usage:

`\Pyz\Yves\ShopApplication\ShopApplicationDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
{
    return [
        ...
        CustomerOrderSuggest::class,
    ];
}
```

2. Add widget snippet to template:
`src/Pyz/Yves/CatalogPage/Theme/default/views/suggestion-results/suggestion-results.twig`
```twig
...

{% define data = {
    ...
    orders: suggestionByType.customer_order | default([]),
    ...
}

...

    <div class="grid grid--gap">
        {% if data.orders is not empty %}
            {% widget 'CustomerOrderSuggest' args [data.orders] only %}{% endwidget %}
        {% endif %}
        ...
```

3. Add widget for PDP usage:

`\Pyz\Yves\ShopApplication\ShopApplicationDependencyProvider`:
```php
protected function getGlobalWidgets(): array
{
    return [
        ...
        ProductDetailCustomerOrderWidget::class,
    ];
}
```

4. Add widget to PDP:

`src/Pyz/Yves/CatalogPage/Theme/default/views/suggestion-results/suggestion-results.twig`
```twig
...
            <div class="col col--sm-12 col--lg-5">
                {% widget 'ProductDetailCustomerOrderWidget' args [data.product.sku] only %}{% endwidget %}
                {% include molecule('product-configurator', 'ProductDetailPage') with {
                    ...
                } only %}
            </div>
...
```
